# CE4145 Natural Language Processing Coursework
## Author: Wilson Sutherland (2227555)

### Dataset Information
The dataset used was the [Game Reviews Sentiment](https://huggingface.co/datasets/auphong2707/game-reviews-sentiment) dataset. This was first accessed from Hugging Face on 25th October, 2025.

### Repository Information
This repository features two files:
- `CE4145 NLP - Binary Classification.ipynb`
  - This contains the main code for the coursework, performing binary classification on the dataset.
- `CE4145 NLP - Multiclass Classification (Supplementary).ipynb`
  - This is a supplementary notebook referred to in the main one where multi-class classification is attempted, ultimately proving unsuccessful.

### Important Information
- Before running the notebook(s), you must change the `main_filepath` variable in the first code cell to the location from which you wish to save/load data.
- For **GloVe** embeddings, the code for converting the GloVe embeddings to a Word2Vec format (required by gensim) must be run at least once for the following code cells to function properly. It may be commented out after the output file has been fully created.

### Necessary Files
For **GloVe** embeddings to work, you must download the `glove.6B.zip` file from https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/. Once extracted, the `glove.6B.100d.txt` file should be placed in the `main_filepath` directory.

### Other Information
At various points in the code, there are lines commented out with text to explain why this is the case. These are often for testing or debugging purposes. For example, weights generated by the representation learners are written to files and can be loaded in to reduce the time taken for the code to run, allowing for faster code execution on subsequent training runs. 